## **The building blocks of the Internet**

- **Internet:** It is the global network of computers that allows data to be sent and exchanged between them, following the same protocol.
- **Web:** It is the set of services that use the internet in their operation. The internet is the infrastructure that allows the web to function.
- **IP Address:** So far, you have learned the concepts of client and server, and you also know that the internet is a network of billions of computers and devices connected to each other. Have you ever stopped to think about how this communication is possible? It's like it happens between us humans: usually, before communication takes place, we need to be able to identify the name of the other person we want to communicate with. And in other contexts, to identify a person in a much larger group, their social security number or other unique identification number is used. In the case of computers on a network, the `IP address` is used.
- **TCP/IP:** Simply put, `TCP/IP` is the main protocol for sending and receiving data on the internet. TCP stands for Transmission Control Protocol. In short, TCP will be responsible for defining how different applications communicate on the network and also how the data sent will be divided into packets. And the `IP`, Internet Protocol, defines how the data divided into packets should be sent to arrive correctly at the recipient. TCP/IP is the union of the TCP and IP protocols, a protocol stack that is divided into four layers: application, transport, network, and interface. Each of these layers has a specific responsibility, but all are connected to each other to ensure the security and availability of data.
- **DNS:** DNS or Domain Name System is a device with a distributed database that manages the names of services, computers, or any device connected to the internet. It is used to relate the `nominal address` (google.com) with the `IP address` (142.250.190.78). DNS servers are responsible for locating and translating searches for sites that we type into the browser into numbers (an IP address).
- **Host:** A Host is any device connected to the network that can transmit or receive IP packets, either as a client, server, or any other type of model, with each host having a unique IP address. Among these devices, we have computers, tablets, smart TVs, smartphones, among others. For the site we are looking for, `www.google.com`, the host is the web server that hosts the web page. It is common to confuse the host with the server. Remember that they are different things! The Server is a type of host - a specific machine with an IP address. On the other hand, the host can also be an entire organization that provides a hosting service to maintain numerous web servers.
- **HTTP:** Hyper-text Transfer Protocol is the protocol used for communication between browsers and servers on the internet.
- **URL:** It is the acronym for Uniform Resource Locators and identifies a specific web resource. As an example, we can change our search to `https://www.google.com/travel/flights` to search for airfare prices. The URL identifies the protocol that will be used to communicate with the server (https), the name of the host (google.com), and the resource we want to access (travel/flights).
